I have had many days like this day past where I spent as much as 12 hours on topics within CDSpec, topics that need to be deciphered and evaluated for applicability going forward and current use. I note that our Django email backend and CDSpec application authorization are intertwined for purposes of authorization and authentication. The topics are not trivial. The dev team, basically Will Capon, has observed that the current implementation online uses Oauth (Oauth2) to enable successful email of user’s login authorization based on the freshness of the authentication token and other tokens. We have a very good writeup of the process from Will, but I have pressed these many hours to come up with a roadmap that will enable us to deposit the application at OIT without having to return in the future, as originally requested. We have more to do.

I have explored deploying the OIT version on a Raspberry Pi system, and then veered off to try a more appropriate Linux 22.04 implementation with all of the features of the system in OIT. That means updating versions of each included app while noting the overall purpose of each item. I deemed this important because both for the future and present, we have no viable documentation that actually explains what the structure of the app is, why the various frameworks are present, how things interact, and why there is such a difference between the structure of the OIT version and the local version that COSC 401 and 402 have spent so much time on. I note that if this documentation is not done, we will land in the place where the original team left off. The system worked adequately enough for users to upload data and run the system at some point in the past. This is obvious. It is equally obvious that at some point, things went south. It appears that expired credentials for login are the culprit but it is also true that Django does not default to a localhost email backend. The email backend default is SMTP. So we need to clarify part of Will's writing to correct for this. He states that the email backend in the local environment based application is set to 'console' by default. That is not the case. I pointed out at the end of last semester that there is a README document, README.rst (telling name, resulting from the use of one of the inner frameworks) at the top of the project, not the application Django directory, which gives explicit directions on how to do login for the local version of CDSpec. The mechanics are found in the cd\_spec\_viewer\_web\\config\\settings directory where the file local.py explicitly sets the backend to console, overriding the base.py file which retains SMTP as the email protocol.

So, we have and will have, no clear documentation that will enable us to avoid having to do such extensive, frustrating, forensic analyses in the future, if for any reason it is necessary to describe how the system works or what to do if it fails again. I am closer than ever to ordering these corrections with the Dev team leader Will doing so much of the programming effort, but we still have a long way to go to actually document and update all features in each environment, as well as to decide how to maintain two applications, and why. We can now run the OIT version locally on Windows systems because of WSL2 (Windows Subsystem for Linux) and the availability of Linux 22.04 to run on it. We still would need to document all this as well. However, we could then have one model for the future.  
