

| Circular Dichroism Spectrometer Software Requirements Specification Version 1.0 09-17-20 401 Quality Assurance & Documentation Team |
| :---- |

---

**Table of Contents**

[1\. Introduction](#1.-introduction)	[1](#1.-introduction)

[1.1 Purpose](#1.1-purpose)	[1](#1.1-purpose)

[1.2 Scope](#1.2-scope)	[1](#1.2-scope)

[1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations](#1.3-definitions,-acronyms,-and-abbreviations)	[2](#1.3-definitions,-acronyms,-and-abbreviations)

[1.4 Document References](#1.4-document-references)	[2](#1.4-document-references)

[1.5 System Overview](#1.5-system-overview)	[2](#1.5-system-overview)

[2\. Functional Description](#2.-functional-description)	[2](#2.-functional-description)

[3\. System Requirements](#3.-system-requirements)	[3](#3.-system-requirements)

[3.1 Hardware Requirements](#3.1-hardware-requirements)	[3](#3.1-hardware-requirements)

[3.2 Software Requirements](#3.2-software-requirements)	[3](#3.2-software-requirements)

[4\. Interfaces](#4.-interfaces)	[4](#4.-interfaces)

[4.1 Standalone Program](#4.1-standalone-program)	[4](#4.1-standalone-program)

[5\. Performance](#5.-performance)	[4](#5.-performance)

[6\. Delivery](#6.-delivery)	[4](#6.-delivery)

[7\. Schedule](#7.-schedule)	[5](#7.-schedule)

[8\. Miscellaneous](#8.-miscellaneous)	[5](#8.-miscellaneous)

**Revision History**

| Date | Version | Description | Author(s) |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| 9/17/20  |  1.0 | Software Requirements First Release  | Annette Orr, Braden Clough, Cameron Carpenter, Edward Park    |
|   |   |   |   |
|   |   |   |   |

---

##### 1\. Introduction {#1.-introduction}

##### 1.1 Purpose {#1.1-purpose}

The purpose of this Software Requirements Specification (SRS) is to provide a detailed description of the functionality of the Circular Dichroism Spectrometer (CD Spec) software application. All requirements as specified by the client will be documented.This document provides a means for both the Quality Assurance team and the Research and Development team to keep track of all requirements for the CD Spec software project so that a product of highest quality shall be delivered to the client.

This document shall also reiterate the project schedule as defined within the associated Software Development Plan (SDP), to aid the Research and Development team in the development process.

##### 1.2 Scope {#1.2-scope}

This SRS document pertains to the CD Spec software application project and provides a detailed description of all software requirements and functionality as specified by the client. This document shall aid in the development of the project and will determine the overall duration and software development process, detailed within the associated SDP document.

##### 1.3 Definitions, Acronyms, and Abbreviations {#1.3-definitions,-acronyms,-and-abbreviations}

* SDP: Software Development Plan   
* SRS: Software Requirements Specification  
* CD Spec: Circular Dichroism Spectrometer

##### 1.4 Document References {#1.4-document-references}

* 401 SDP: Software Development Plan. v1.0, 9/17/20

##### 1.5 System Overview {#1.5-system-overview}

The Circular Dichroism Spectrometer (CD Spec Spec) software shall be a functional database housed within a constructed web application. This software shall be utilized by both instructors and students to monitor spectral changes in structure between protein-DNA interactions. Users of this web application shall be able to create three forms of accounts. These accounts include a public user account, a student user account, and an administrator account. Each account type shall have specific abilities and/or limitations imposed. A public user may only view submitted protein-DNA data, they may not edit the data in any way or submit data themselves. A student user may view and submit protein-DNA data, they may not edit the data in any way. An administrator has full functionality, meaning that they may view, submit, and edit all data within the database. 

This CD Spec software shall perform calculations within the backend in order to monitor changes and differences between the data within the database.

---

##### 2\. Functional Description {#2.-functional-description}

*\[Throughout this section, all of the "nitty-gritty" details are expressed. A list format, narrative format, or some combination of both can be used. This is the essence of the Software Requirements Document. An explanation of the language to be used (shall, must, will, should, etc.) should be provided. Examples of details and formatting are as follows:\] ADmin user public* 

**2.1** Opening Scene: show the login page and all its features

**2.1.1** A Login page for any one who opens the site

**2.1.1.1**The application shall be account creation for the users

**2.1.1.2** The application shall areas for the user to be able to enter the

**2.1.1.3** The application shall have user login retries (possible 3 retry limit)

**2.1.1.4** The application shall have a button for forgot password

**2.1.1.5** The application shall have a “help” option on login screen for sign in help

**2.2** The application shall have user creation page

**2.2.1** The application shall have a user interface for login credentials

**2.2.2** The application shall have user has a key for student or admin creation

**2.2.3**  The application shall have password confirmation

**2.3**  The application shall have a forgot password page

	**2.3.1** the screen will have an email account submission block

**2.3.2** the screen will show that it was sent below the block for Ui

**2.4**  The application shall have a Help page

	**2.4.1** data for the help function is to be decided soon

**2.5** The application shall have a home page: this is a screen that shows the user a screen where they can access and compare data

**2.5.1** The application shall have a back end that will have specific data unlocks based on the user access level

**2.5.2** The application shall have a search bar for finding data from the database

**2.5.3** The application shall have an about /help tab: a button that give the user a tour of the whole system

**2.5.4** The application will have compare contrast button: a button that grants the user the ability to compare and contrast data of the same type

**2.5.4.1** The application shall have a way to chose the parameters for comparison on a graphical representation

**2.5.4.2** The application shall have creating proper graphical representation using practical numbers for the X & Y axis

**2.5.5**  The application shall have a separate upload page(admin only): the upload will consist of a way to take 2 document types and be able to decipher them so that all the data is accounted for.

**2.5.5.1**The application shall have an edit / create data button (admin only): allows the admin to insert new data to the system and or edit data if the data is wrong

**2.5.5.2** The application shall have an upload csv or text files to the database.

---

##### 3\. System Requirements {#3.-system-requirements}

##### 3.1 Hardware Requirements {#3.1-hardware-requirements}

* This program will run on most modern computer hardware.

##### 3.2 Software Requirements {#3.2-software-requirements}

* This program should work with any computer with software from 2015 or later.

---

##### 4\. Interfaces {#4.-interfaces}

*\[List any external interfaces used by the program. (for this assignment, there should be none other than the mouse and keyboard) Ensure that the language is consistent with section 2\. Below are some example Interfaces requirements.\] For example for us it would include the data base and the the world wide web*

Interfaces required for the functionality of this software shall include an internet connection as well as the CD Spec project database which is the core of this web application.

##### 4.1 Standalone Program {#4.1-standalone-program}

This application has 3 interfaces one is the interface with the internet, with the CD Spec project database, and a mouse and keyboard. The interface with the internet is so that anyone can have access to the application. The second interface with the CD Spec project database is so that the admin level users can push data to the database and also choose which pieces are publicly available. The mouse and keyboard interface is what allows the user to traverse the application

---

##### 5\. Performance  {#5.-performance}

*\[List performance specifications for program installation (if a formal installation process exists), loading of the program, response to actions of the user, time threshold to reset the program, etc. Ensure that the language is consistent with section 2.\]*

* Users will input the database’s URL into their web browser, taking them to the login page.  
* Users will then be able to create an account or log in if they have an existing account.  
* With a successful login or account creation, the user will be taken to the homepage of the database.  
* With an unsuccessful login, the user will be taken back to the login page to input their credentials again.  
* Resetting the program will be performed through the browser’s refresh button. This should reset the program in a few seconds.

---

##### 6\. Delivery {#6.-delivery}

The program will be developed as a standalone web application. It will be accessible by inputting the correct URL into the address bar when utilizing any of the following web browsers: 

* Google Chrome  
* Mozilla Firefox  
* Microsoft Edge  
* Internet Explorer

No training is required for this delivery as the URL just needs to be inputted into the browser’s address bar. 

*\[Here you should detail how the program will be delivered \- on a certain type of media, via e-mail, via web download, what documentation will accompany the software, who will install the software for the customer, if any training will be provided.\]*

---

##### 7\. Schedule {#7.-schedule}

First Drafts:

9/29 SDP and the SRS complete

10/1 schedule done; traceability matrix done

10/6 SDD Start.

10/8 SDD complete

10/12 all documentation handed in at this point

Revisions:

10/20 SDP 

10/22 SRS complete

10/27 traceability matrix done

10/29 SDD Done

11/3 Stp complete

Events:

10/20 Customer Presentation

11/10 code review and showcase

12/3 final presentation

---

##### 8\. Miscellaneous  {#8.-miscellaneous}

*\[Anything not covered in the above sections that can be considered a requirement of the system.\]*

---

